W-21219893-jwt-generation-policy (#1001)
mulesoft/docs-gateway: gateway/1.12/modules/ROOT/pages/policies-outbound-jwt-generation.adoc

= Credential Injection JWT Generation Policy
ifndef::env-site,env-github[]
include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]
:imagesdir: ../assets/images
:keywords: jwt, token, authentication, api gateway, flex gateway, gateway, policy

[width="100%", cols="5,15"]
|===
>s| Policy Name | Credential Injection JWT Generation
>s|Summary  | Generates a JWT and attaches it to the Authorization header as a Bearer token
>s|Category | Security
>s|First Flex Gateway version available | v1.12.0

> >s| Returned Status Codes | No return codes. The upstream service returns error codes. If JWT generation fails, the policy returns `503`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
>s| Returned Status Codes | No return codes exist for this policy. Error codes are returned from the upstream service.
```

|===

== Summary

> The Credential Injection JWT Generation policy generates a JWT and attaches it to the Authorization header as a Bearer token. It signs the token with the configured key and algorithm and supports standard time-based claims, such as `exp`, `iat`, and `nbf`, in addition to custom claims and JWT headers. Use DataWeave expressions for claim and header names and values. These expressions can reference request attributes or authentication data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Credential Injection JWT Generation policy generates a JWT token and injects it into the Authorization header as a Bearer token. It signs the token with the configured key and algorithm and supports standard time-based claims, custom claims, and JWT headers. Use DataWeave expressions for claim and header names and values. These expressions can reference request attributes or authentication data.
```

== Configuring Policy Parameters

include::partial$policy-title-headers.adoc[tag=configFile]

----
- policyRef:
    name: jwt-generation-flex
  config:
    signingMethod: <string> // REQUIRED, default: RS256
    privateKey: <string> // REQUIRED
    iat: <boolean> // REQUIRED, default: true
    exp: <number> // REQUIRED, default: 0
    nbf: <number> // REQUIRED, default: 0
    customClaims: // REQUIRED (can be empty array)
      - name: <string>
        value: <string>
    customHeaders: // REQUIRED (can be empty array)
      - name: <string>
        value: <string>
----

[%header%autowidth.spread,cols="a,a,a,a"]
|===
|Parameter | Required or Optional | Default Value | Description

| `signingMethod`
| Required
| `RS256`

> | The algorithm that signs the JWT. Valid values are `RS256`, `RS384`, `RS512`, `HS256`, `HS384`, `HS512`, `ES256`, and `ES384`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| The algorithm that signs the JWT. Supported values: `RS256`, `RS384`, `RS512`, `HS256`, `HS384`, `HS512`, `ES256`, and `ES384`.
```

| `privateKey`
| Required
| N/A

> | The key that signs the JWT. Use PEM formated in pkcs8 for RSA and ES. Use plain text for HS.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| The key that signs the JWT. Use PEM format in pkcs8 for RSA and ES. Use plain text for HS.
```

> | The key that signs the JWT. Use PEM with pkcs8 for RSA and ES. Use plain text for HS.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| The key that signs the JWT. Use PEM formated in pkcs8 for RSA and ES. Use plain text for HS.
```

| `iat`
| Required
| `true`
| A Boolean value specifying whether to include the issued-at (iat) claim in the JWT.

| `exp`
| Required
| `0`

> | The number of seconds from the issue time until expiration. To omit the `exp` claim, enter `0`.

Reviewer: Have engineering confirm that omit is the right word. It might be, not sure though.

| `nbf`
| Required
| `0`
| The number of seconds from the issue time until the token becomes valid. To omit the `nbf` claim, enter `0`.

| `customClaims`
| Required
| N/A

> | The claims to include in the JWT. Each entry contains a `name` and a `value` defined as DataWeave expressions. The array can be empty.

Reviewer: Are the names for these values defined as Dataweave expressions or regular string? I think this needs to be corrected. Also, could value just be a text string?

Pretty much, confirm if this must be dataweave.

Reviewer: Also, now that I'm looking at the examples, I don't think they have to be dataweave expressions and can just be regular strings.

I'd probably word it roughly like "a string or dataweave expression"

| Required
| N/A
| The JWT header parameters to include. Each entry has a `name` and a `value`. Each can be a string or a DataWeave expression. The array can be empty.
|===

==== Resource Configuration Examples

* HMAC-signed JWT with custom claim:
+
----
- policyRef:
    name: jwt-generation-flex
  config:
    signingMethod: HS256
    privateKey: my-secret-key
    iat: true
    exp: 3600
    nbf: 0
    customClaims:
      - name: "sub"
        value: "#[authentication.properties.clientId default 'anonymous']"
    customHeaders: []
----

* RSA-signed JWT with custom claims and headers:
+
----
- policyRef:
    name: jwt-generation-flex
  config:
    signingMethod: RS256
    privateKey: |
      -----BEGIN PRIVATE KEY-----
      <your-private-key>
      -----END PRIVATE KEY-----
    iat: true
    exp: 7200
    nbf: 0
    customClaims:
      - name: "aud"
        value: "'https://upstream.example.com'"
      - name: "client_id"
        value: "#[authentication.properties.clientId]"
    customHeaders:
      - name: "kid"
        value: "'key-1'"
----

include::partial$policy-title-headers.adoc[tag=ui]

[%header%autowidth.spread]
|===
|Parameter |Description | Required?

> |Signing Method |The algorithm that signs the JWT. Valid values are RS256, RS384, RS512, HS256, HS384, HS512, ES256, andES384. |Required

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|Signing Method |The algorithm that signs the JWT. Valid values are RS256, RS384, RS512, HS256, HS384, HS512, ES256, and ES384. |Required
```

> |Private Key |The key that signs the JWT. Use PEM with `pkcs8` for RSA and ES. Use plain text for HS. |Required

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|Private Key |The key that signs the JWT. Use PEM with pkcs8 for RSA and ES. Use plain text for HS. |Required
```

|Issued At (iat) |A Boolean value specifying whether to include the issued-at (`iat`) claim in the JWT. |Required
|Expiration (exp) |The number of seconds from the issue time until expiration. To omit the `exp` claim, enter `0`. |Required
|Not Before (nbf) |The number of seconds from the issue time until the token becomes valid. To omit the `nbf` claim, enter `0`. |Required

> |Custom Claims |The claims to include in the JWT. Each entry has a `name` and a `value`. Each can be a string or a DataWeave expression. The array can be empty.

Reviewer 2: missing required column
